I don't prepare a classic more marinière
dish using some cleaned and prepared
muscles in my pan I have got softened
shallot in a little bit of butter where
the glass of wine and that has been
cooked for about five minutes just to
allow the wine to reduce away this is
now up to the boil and I'm going to pop
in my prepared mussels into the pot and
replace the lid
I'll give them a little bit of a shake
and then back onto the heat and these
are going to take between three and four
minutes just to steam open so repair
them
you need to look for two things first of
all you want to make sure that the
muscle is actually tightly shut when
it's open like that
it's either enjoying being in a warm
environment or it's actually dead and in
order to check that tap the mussel if it
remains open I would not use that
because it's actually would indicate to
me that the mussel has actually died and
you can get nasty food food poisoning
from it so I would discard that if the
mussels damaged in any way so if the
mussel has got any cracks in it I would
also discard that and those two I
wouldn't cook the other muscles you can
see this is one is open that shuts very
nicely when I tap the shell it's what we
call the percussion test to make sure
that closes nicely once that's done I
then need to remove the little piece of
beard it's also known as the Bice's
thread it's a bit of protein that the
mussel spins in order to attach itself
to its rope or the rock or wherever it's
growing I'm then going to give those a
little bit of a scrubbing and scour in a
bowl of clean water when you buy mussels
it's really important just to leave them
in a bowl covered with a damp cloth in
the bottom of the fridge what you don't
want to do is actually soak them in tap
water for any length of time
I have one here that does have some
barnacles on if that's the case we'll
remove the Bice's thread again and using
the back of a knife just scrape those
barnacles away make sure it's nice and
clean and then again give it a little
bit of a scrubbing with the scarer going
back to the mussels I have in the pan
and if you look in there you can
actually see that the muscles have
nicely open
and I'm going to lift those out into the
colander any that's remained shut at
this stage need to be discarded because
they may well be dead they want to be
really nicely opened and nestled in the
shale and once we've drained the muscles
and put them in a serving dish I'm going
to replace the cooking liquid back on
the stove and allow that to reduce a
little bit you can add a little bit of
cream to this just allow that to reduce
down let that bubble for two or three
minutes pile them into my serving dish
replace some of that little bit of
cooking liquid that's come out let that
bubble away taste it for seasoning one
of the key things about mussels is that
they do throw out quite a lot of salty
liquid so when you reduce this down be
very careful that you don't have any
extra salt to the pan a little swirl
round with them some chopped parsley as
a finish and that quantity of mussels
would be enough to serve one person